# Student-Performance-Evaluation
The project involves determining the rate of learning of students, using their interactions with an intelligent tutoring system. The dataset used to train the machine learning model contains logs of such interactions where students’ responses to mathematical problems (algebra specifically) are recorded. Using these logs, the algorithm will attempt to learn the concept or the mathematical problem. The tutor’s evaluation of the students’ responses in the training data helps the system learn the concept and later predict if the student’s attempt at later problems are correct or not.
Various features such as duration of time taken to solve the problem, number of hints asked for, number of incorrect responses to a problem, etc, are used to build the model. The dataset contains the responses of various students to various kinds of problems. Out system aims to predict the correctness of a particular student’s solution to problems based on his previous performances. It classifies the result for each student and then makes generalizations as to what problems are generally considered hard and also how the rate of improvement varies between students.
The “knowledge component” of the actual algebraic concept contained in the dataset is used by the system to identify similarities between problems, and decide on what knowledge or skill can be commonly employed to solve different problems (e.g, multiplication can be used to find both area of a rectangle and area of a circle. Therefore, a student who correctly answers questions regarding finding area of rectangles would know multiplication well, thereby, leading to a prediction that he would mostly answer questions regarding area of circles correctly. In this case, more weightage would be given to the feature “skill” that will contribute to the overall prediction). Several such knowledge components will typically be involved in solving a problem, leading to us considering all of them separately and assigning appropriate weights to each.
Our model therefore, aims to infer the skill requirements of a problem by analyzing the data containing students’ performances. Achieving this would be of great practical importance, as it would lessen human efforts to analyze such tasks and also make the process of evaluation speedier.
